How does the Leaderboard work?
The Redis sorted set is the data type for the use cases and access patterns in the leaderboard requirements. 
The sorted set is an in-memory data type that makes it trivial to generate the leaderboard in real-time for millions of players.

Functional Requirements
    The client (player) can view the top 10 players on the leaderboard in real-time (absolute leaderboard)
    The client can view a specific player’s rank and score
    The client can view the surrounding ranked players to a particular player (relative leaderboard)
    The client can receive score updates through push notifications
    The leaderboard can be configured for global, regional, and friend circles
    The client can view the historical game scores and historical leaderboards
    The leaderboards can rank players based on gameplay on a daily, weekly, or monthly basis
    The clients can update the leaderboard in a fully distributed manner across the globe
    The leaderboard should support thousands of concurrent players


Estimation:

50 million DAU
5:1 read to write ratio
QPS(write): 600
read:write 5:1
QPS(read): 3000
peak qps(read): 3600

total player count: 70M
single record of player  32 bytes
storage for a dady 50Mplayers/day * 32 bytes/player 1600MB
storage for 5 years: 1600MB * 5 * 365 approx 3 TB


in redis we have leaderboards data which is a sorted set based on score and hash data which is players data

SQL query to calculate the rank of a specific player:
 
SELECT COUNT(*)
FROM leaderboards AS l2
WHERE l2.score >= (
  SELECT score
  FROM leaderboards AS l1
  WHERE l1.player_id = '42'
);

why relational db is not optimal:
1. computing the rank of a player requires the recomputation of the ranking of every player through a full table scan
2. caching the read queries on the relational database for performance might result in stale leaderboard data
3. query time can be slow when the count of players is in millions
4. join operations can be problematic

As long as the number of concurrent players in the game remains low to moderate (below 100 thousand), the relational database can provide sufficient leaderboard functionality.


use redis sorted sets:

1. The player ID is available in the sorted sets and the metadata of the player can be fetched from the relational database.
2. The hash data type in Redis can cache the metadata of players for quick access to the metadata.


in approach1.png we put data in hash server(redis) with low ttl so that user does not get stale data

to prevent thundering herd problem we can create database trigger that will by default push changes to cache

to send notifications to a player we can use database trigger which will invoke serverless functions on ranking changes
serverless functions can write the ranking changes data on message queue for processing, then send notification to players


scaling redis server:

we will shard the leaderboard cache server based on score in consistent hashing
when we want to update score of a player, we will update the shard for that player since score has changed and shard may change

when we want to see top k players, we find top players for each shard and the combine them to find top k players , this will increase 
read latency



