How Does the Live Comment Work?

At a high level, the Live Comment service performs the following operations:

    1. gateway server fans out live comments to the clients through server-sent events (SSE)
    2. the client subscribes to a live video on the gateway server over Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP)
    3. in-memory subscription store on the gateway server keeps the viewership associativity
    4. gateway server subscribes to a live video on the endpoint store
    5. endpoint store keeps the set of gateway servers subscribed to a particular live video
    6. heartbeat signal or time to live (TTL) on keys on the subscription store can be used to drain the inactive SSE connections
    7. ending of a live video can trigger an update on the endpoint store
    8. dispatcher broadcasts the live comments to the dispatcher in peer data centers


Functional Requirements
1. viewers can post comments
2. viewers can see all comments posted in near realtime
3. viewers can see all comments posted before they joined
4. viewers can reply to comments
5. viewers can react to comments


Non-Functional Requirements
1. Highly availability
2. Fault-tolerant
3. Low latency approx 200ms
4. Scalability, millions of videos with thousands of comments
5. Eventual consistency


ESTIMATION:
amount of Daily Active Users (DAU)?: 100M
system’s total number of daily live videos?: 200M daily videos
average amount of live comments on a live video?: 10
anticipated read: write ratio of live comments?: 100:1
peak amount of concurrent users watching the same live video?: 80M

Core Entities:
1. Comments
2. Live video
3. Users

API:

// viewers to post comment:
POST /comments/:liveVideoId -> 200
{
    comment
}

// viewers can see comments posted
GET /comments/:liveVideoId?cursor={last_comment_id}&direction={after/before}&pageSize=50


when user is trying to scroll up, we can use cache to improve latency
we can create key as userId:liveVideoID:comments[]
we can cache last 1000 comments maybe with TTL and serve from cache


we can use websockets and sse here

websocket:
1. bidirectional
2. its own protocol(not http)
3. all infra needs to support upgrading from http to websocket(services, api gateway)
4. load balancers, procies, firewalls, all need to negotiate this upgrade
5. here we dont need bidirectional because most of the users are not commenting


SSE:
1. unidirectional
2. over http
3. built in browser support for reconnection
4. just looks like a long running http request
5. http headers to indicate we will be sending chunks


Database:
comment: commentId, videoId, authorId,content,created_at

lot of writes here:
high write Throughput

postgres with sharding can also be used here.
we have no complex relations between data, user and liveVideoId, we can use cassandra here and
easily shard based on videdoId

comment service has in memory mapping to fanout the comment that is created by a user
it will map video id to a list of connections
but this has a problem with scaling, when we horizontally scale, then it is
possible that the instance that receives the comment from a user is different than
the instance that have connections mapping

we will create a separate realtime comment service that will be responsible
to fanout the comment, it is created separately so that we can scale it independently 
based on the number of sse, while comment service will only be responsible for
posting the comment

we have 2 ways of maintaing these realtime comment service:

1. zookeeper:
when new client connect using sse, zookeeper knows which live video they want
to connect to, so it connects them to that particular real time comment service

when new comment comes in, it asks zookeeper what live video that comment is for 
and zookeeper tells which realtime comment server will push the message to
comment service can also cache the zookeeper response

problem is the network hop here when we want to connect to zookeeper 
zookeeper needs to maintain realtime comment service using heartbeat which can create consistency issue


2. broadcast:
use pub sub where comment service will put(broadcast) new comment in pub sub,
all of the realtime comment service subscribes to the queue and only those who actually needs that 
comment based on live video, they will broadcast msg to users using sse
we can even partition pub/sub based on hash(videoId)%n so that real time comment service are not 
subscribing to all topics but only a limited set of topics